---
layout: post
title: "Fun: Test Kitchen Affinity Quiz"
excerpt: "A Mathematically Supported Affinity Quiz"
comments: true
tags: [Fun, Web]
year: 2020
last_modified_at: 2020-03-01T21:37:10
---

# Bon Appetit Test Kitchen Affinity Quiz

Early on in the Covid-19 Pandemic (circa Spring 2020), the Bon Appetit Test Kitchen published a video where each test kitchen chef rated a number of food items on the scale [1, 100]. Being the nerd that I am, I thought, "what a wonderful opportunity to create a 'real' Bon Appetit affinity quiz!" i.e., a quiz like those so often published on the internet which claim they can "tell you which marvel superhero you're most like based on your favorite desserts" and such. 

I designed a metric based on the R10 Euclidean norm (think physical distance but in 10-dimensions) which would actually, meaningfully measure how similar someones ratings of those same food items were to the answers of each test kitchen staffer. In spirit, it is "100% - (R10 distance between your answers and a staffers answers)/(maximum possible R10 distance from a staffers answers)". The space is bounded by (0,100) in all dimensions so there is a "furthest possible point". I built a website on github pages which would dynamically evaluate this metric with javascript.

[See the Quiz Here](https://kjhall01.github.io/quiz)

This was fun to build and play with - however after I became aware of the institutional racism and toxic workplace environment facilitated by and supported by Conde Nast & the Bon Appetit editorial staff, I no longer wished to support the organization. I am however still proud of the work I did designing the quiz and building the website, so I decided to leave it on-line, but to change all the names to nonsense. 

Have fun! I did!


